[OSDOCS#17933]Add procedure for switching update channel. (#105475)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-upgrading-switch-channels.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrading/rosa-hcp-upgrading.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-upgrading-switch-channels_{context}"]

> = Switch channels to view available upgrade options

Author: Thanks @wking, I see the way it has been used in OCP, looks like they have gone with "update" across the board - with a small mention of 'update or upgrade' usually in topic introductions, so I see how the terms are used interchangeably.

> = Switch channels to view available upgrade options

Reviewer: @jheraght Your observation is correct, the OCP docs prefer "update". Do you think this new doc could opt for  "update" where possible as well?

Some RH product docs still distinguish between "upgrade" and "update" (hardware vs software). However the OCP docs are mostly using "update" since "upgrade" can imply "whatever customer is using is inferior, not good enough".

> = Switch channels to view available upgrade options

Author: @otikhomi Yes I think it's best to go with 'update' rather than 'upgrade' in these docs :+1:  I have done a good few of the changes so far, all Upgrades/upgrading references changed to Updates/updating, continuing on with this.

[role="_abstract"]

> You can switch the channel options on a {product-title} cluster to access the preferred upgrade options within a minor version (Y-stream), or to upgrade to the subsequent minor versions (Y+1, Y+2). The version number in the channel represents the target minor version for which you would like to see upgrade options.

Author: Done now.

> For example, if you're currently on `stable-4.18`, you can switch the channel to `stable-4.19` and view the updates that are available to get from 4.18.z to 4.19.0, providing there is a path from your current cluster version to 4.19.0. This strategy ensures that administrators must explicitly decide to update to the next minor version of {product-title}, and prevents automatic minor version upgrades.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you're currently on `stable-4.18`, you can switch the channel to `stable-4.19` and view the updates that are available to get from 4.18.z to 4.19.z, providing there is a path from your current cluster version to 4.19.z. This strategy ensures that administrators must explicitly decide to update to the next minor version of {product-title}, and prevents automatic minor version upgrades.
```

Author: Done :+1:

.Procedure

. Log in to {cluster-manager-url}.
. Select a cluster for which you want to see the upgrade options.

> . Click Administration > Cluster Settings. 

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify, there's no Administration tab > Cluster Settings when a user clicks on a cluster. Just an Overview tab > Details.

Author: Thanks for this @t-hendricks , I'll make those updates :+1:

Author: Updated now, with a couple of changes/tweaks to reflect the steps in the UI.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrading/rosa-hcp-upgrading.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-upgrading-switch-channels_{context}"]
= Switch channels to view available upgrade options

[role="_abstract"]

> You can switch the channel options on a {product-title} cluster to access the preferred upgrade options within a minor version (Y-stream), or to upgrade to the subsequent minor versions (Y+1, Y+2). The version number in the channel represents the target minor version for which you want to see upgrade options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can switch the channel on a {product-title} cluster to access upgrade options within a current minor version (Y-stream) or to the subsequent minor versions (Y+1, Y+2). The version number in the channel represents your target minor version for which you want to see upgrade options.
```
The longer a sentence, the higher the readability score :) What would be the most lightweight version of this paragraph that doesn't loose the meaning? Perhaps, "for which you want to see upgrade options" can be eliminated too.

Author: Good points, I went with this: You can switch the channel on a {product-title} cluster to access update options within a current minor version (y-stream), or the subsequent minor versions (y+1, y+2). The version number in the channel represents the target minor version.

> For example, if you're currently on `stable-4.18`, you can switch the channel to `stable-4.19` and view the updates that are available to get from 4.18.z to 4.19.z, providing there is a path from your current cluster version to 4.19.z. This strategy ensures that administrators must explicitly decide to update to the next minor version of {product-title}, and prevents automatic minor version upgrades.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your cluster is on `stable-4.18`, switching the channel to `stable-4.19` shows update paths from 4.18.z to 4.19.z, if such paths are available. This strategy ensures that administrators must explicitly initiate minor version upgrades, and they never occur automatically.
```

Author: Done :+1:

.Procedure

. Log in to {cluster-manager-url}.
. Click *Fleet Management* > *Clusters*.
. Select the cluster for which you want to see the upgrade options. 
. To view the cluster details, click the *Overview* tab.
  * The *Channel* field displays the current update channel for the cluster, such as `stable-4.18`.
. Next, select the new update channel.
.. In the Channel field, click the edit channel icon next to the current channel name.
.. On the *Edit channel* dialog, select the required channel version, for example, `fast-4.19`.
.. Click *Save*.

> ** The *Channel* field updates to display the new update channel, `fast-4.19`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The *Channel* field displays the current update channel for the cluster.
. Select the new update channel.
.. In the *Channel* field, click the *Edit channel* icon next to the current channel name.
.. On the *Edit channel* dialog, select the required channel version.
.. Click *Save*.
** The *Channel* field updates to display the new update channel. 
```
An intro to procedure includes examples of how channel names can look like, so we could keep procedure steps cleaner, WDYT?

Author: Yes for sure, better to remove unnecessary examples from the procedure itself. Implemented :+1:

** The *Version* field displays the *Update* link if updates are available for your selected channel.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The Channel group option is being deprecated. If you set a channel group only, {product-title} will default to preserving the current channel's target version. For example, a `stable-4.20` cluster moving to the `eus` channel group will use the `eus-4.20` channel by default, if the current cluster version is a member of the `eus-4.20` channel.

> ====

Reviewer: DITA requirement make us attach this note to the final step of a procedure or it can't be migrated.

And attaching this admonition to a procedure step makes it relevant/important for this procedure step only.

At the same time, this note talks about a bigger concept than what a step describes. Will it make sense to maybe place this admonition before the procedure? And also mention deprecation to docs that discuss Channel groups VS Channels?

Author: Have moved this note to the Channel groups VS Channels topic :+1:
